Docs/docker compose update (#64565)
grafana/grafana: docs/sources/setup-grafana/installation/docker/index.md

The default images for Grafana are created using the Alpine Linux project and can be found in the Alpine official image. For instructions on configuring a Docker image for Grafana, refer to [Configure a Grafana Docker image]({{< ref "../../configure-docker/" >}}).

## Run Grafana via Docker CLI

This section shows you how to run Grafana using the Docker CLI. 

> **Note:** If you are on a Linux system (for example, Debian or Ubuntu), you might need to add `sudo` before the command or add your user to the `docker` group. For more information, refer to [Linux post-installation steps for Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

To run the latest stable version of Grafana, run the following command:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

Where:

> run = run directly from the command line\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
run = run directly from the command line
```

> `d` = run in the background\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`d` = run in the background
```

> `p` = assign the port number, which in this case is `3000`\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`p` = assign the port number, which in this case is `3000`
```

> `name` = assign a logical name to the container, for example, `grafana`\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`name` = assign a logical name to the container, for example, `grafana`
```

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

It is recommended to use persistent storage because running without it, users will lose all the data once the container is shut down. Users should use this method if they are deploying in a production environment or where the data is critical.

To use persistent storage, complete the following steps:

1. Ceate a Docker volume by running the following commands:

   ```bash
   # create a persistent volume for your data
   docker volume create grafana-storage

   # verify that the volume was created correctly
   docker volume inspect grafana-storage
   ```

1. Start the Grafana container by running the following command:
   ```bash
   # start grafana
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   --volume grafana-storage:/var/lib/grafana \
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

#### Use bind mounts

> If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user that has the permission to access and write to the folder you map.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user with permission to access and write to the folder you map.
```

# start grafana with your user id and using the data folder
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
--user "$(id -u)" --volume "$PWD/data:/var/lib/grafana" \
grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

### Use environment variables

Grafana supports specifying custom configuration settings via [environment variables](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/setup-grafana/configure-grafana/#override-configuration-with-environment-variables) within your Docker container.

```bash
# enabling public dashboard feature

docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
-e "GF_FEATURE_TOGGLES_ENABLE=publicDashboards" \
grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

## Install plugins in the Docker container

You can install plugins in Grafana from the official and community [plugins page](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins) or by using a custom URL to install a private plugin. These plugins allow you to add new visualization types, data sources, and applications to help you better visualize your data.

Grafana currently supports three types of plugins: panel, data source, and app. For more information on managing plugins, refer to [Plugin Management]({{< relref "../../../administration/plugin-management/" >}}).

> To install plugins in the Docket container, complete the following steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To install plugins in the Docker container, complete the following steps:
```

1. Pass the plugins you want to be installed to Docker with the `GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS` environment variable as a comma-separated list. 

   This sends each plugin name to `grafana-cli plugins install ${plugin}` and installs them when Grafana starts.

   For example:

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=grafana-clock-panel grafana-simple-json-datasource" grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

1. To specify the version of a plugin, add the version number to the `GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS` environment variable. 

   For example:

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=grafana-clock-panel 1.0.1" \
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

   >**Note:** If you do not specify a version number, the latest version is used.

1. To install a plugin from a custom URL, use the following convention to specify the URL: `<url to plugin zip>;<plugin install folder name>`.

   For example: 

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=https://github.com/VolkovLabs/custom-plugin.zip;custom-plugin" \
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

## Example

> The following example runs the latest stable version of Grafana, listening on port 3000, with the container named "grafana", persistent storage in the grafana-storage docker volume, the server root URL set, and the official [clock panel](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel/) plugin installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example runs the latest stable version of Grafana, listening on port 3000, with the container named `grafana`, persistent storage in the grafana-storage docker volume, the server root URL set, and the official [clock panel](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel/) plugin installed.
```

To run the latest stable version of Grafana using Docker Compose, complete the following steps:

1. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file.

   For example:

   ```bash
    version: "3.8"
    services:
      grafana:
      image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
      container_name: grafana
      restart: unless-stopped
      ports:
        - '3000:3000'
   ```

1. To run `docker-compose.yaml`, run the following command:

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder 

   # then start the grafana container 
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
   ```

   Where:

   d = detached mode \
   up = to bring the container up and running

To determine that Grafana is running, open a browser window and type `IP_ADDRESS:3000`. The sign in screen should appear.

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash
docker compose down
```

> **Note:** For more information about using Docker Compose commands, refer to [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/compose/).

### Save your Grafana data

> When you use Docker containers, the data inside them is temporary by default. This means that if you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.
```

> #### Use persistent storage (recommended)

Reviewer: A reminder to copy the intro text from above after that content is finalized.

   
1. Add the following code to the into it:
   ```yaml
   version: "3.8"
   services:
     grafana:
     image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
     container_name: grafana
     restart: unless-stopped
     ports:
       - '3000:3000'
   ```

1. Save the file and run the following command:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
   ```

#### Use bind mounts

If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user that has the permission to access and write to the folder you map.

To use bind mounts, complete the following steps:

1. Create a new `docker-compose.yaml` file

1. Add the following code into it:

   ```yaml
   services:
   grafana:
     image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
     container_name: grafana
     restart: unless-stopped
     # if you are running as root then set it to 0
     # else find the right id with the id -u command
     user: "0"
     ports:
       - '3000:3000'
     volumes:
       - '$PWD/data:/var/lib/grafana'
   ```

1. Save the file and run the following command:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
    ```

### Example

> The following example runs the latest stable version of Grafana, listening on port 3000, with the container named "grafana", persistent storage in the grafana-storage docker volume, the server root URL set, and the official [clock panel](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel/) plugin installed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example runs the latest stable version of Grafana, listening on port 3000, with the container named `grafana`, persistent storage in the grafana-storage docker volume, the server root URL set, and the official [clock panel](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel/) plugin installed.
```

cd48d3994968   grafana/grafana-enterprise   "/run.sh"   8 seconds ago   Up 7 seconds   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp   grafana

# To stop the grafana container run the command
# docker stop CONTAINER-ID or use 
# docker stop NAME, which is `grafana` as previously defined
docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

> **Note:** Though both methods are similar, there is a slight difference. If you want your storage to be fully managed by Docker and accessed only through Docker containers and the Docker CLI, you should choose to use persistent storage. However, if you need full control of the storage and want to allow other processes besides Docker to access or modify the storage layer, then bind mounts is the right choice for your environment.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> It is recommended to use persistent storage because running without it, users will lose all the data once the container is shut down. Users should use this method if they are deploying in a production environment or where the data is critical and only want Docker service to fully manage the stroage volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Persistent storage is recommended because, without it, you will lose all the data when the container is shut down. Use this method when you deploy in a production environment or when the data is critical and you want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.
```

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder 

   # then start the grafana container 
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
   ```

   Where:

   d = detached mode
   
   up = to bring the container up and running

To determine that Grafana is running, open a browser window and type `IP_ADDRESS:3000`. The sign in screen should appear.

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash
docker compose down
```

> **Note:** For more information about using Docker Compose commands, refer to [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/compose/).

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion

It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you deploy in a production environment or when the data is critical and want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.

```

docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

> **Note:** Though both methods are similar, there is a slight difference. If you want your storage to be fully managed by Docker and accessed only through Docker containers and the Docker CLI, you should choose to use persistent storage. However, if you need full control of the storage and want to allow other processes besides Docker to access or modify the storage layer, then bind mounts is the right choice for your environment.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you deploy in a production environment or when the data is critical and want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

The default images for Grafana are created using the widely used Alpine Linux project and can be found in the Alpine official image. For instructions on how to configure a docker image for Grafana, refer to [configure a Grafana Docker image](https://grafana.com/docs/grafana/latest/administration/configure-docker/).

## Run Grafana via Docker CLI

This section shows you how to run Grafana using the Docker CLI. 

> **Note:** If you are on a Linux system (for example, Debian or Ubuntu), you might need to add **sudo** before the command or add your user to the **docker** group. For more information, refer to [Linux post-installation steps for Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

To run the latest stable version of Grafana, run the following command:

```bash
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

> where:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Where:
```

> run = run directly from the command line\

Reviewer: Why is there a \ at the end of each line? Wondering if they are necessary.

Author: The \ was to add a line break (new-line) as in my preview it was all showing in a single line and looked unreadable. Please remove it if required.

Reviewer: done

> d = run in the background\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`d` = run in the background\
```

> p = assign the port number, which in this case is `3000`\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`p` = assign the port number, which in this case is `3000`\
```

> name = assign a logical name to the container, for example, `grafana`\

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`name` = assign a logical name to the container, for example, `grafana`\
```

> grafana/grafana-enterprise = the image to run in the container

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`grafana/grafana-enterprise` = the image to run in the container
```

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash

> # docker ps command tells about the running process in the docker

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# The `docker ps` command shows the processes running in Docker
```

docker ps

> # This will display a list of containers, like:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# This will display a list of containers that looks like the following:
```

CONTAINER ID   IMAGE  COMMAND   CREATED  STATUS   PORTS    NAMES
cd48d3994968   grafana/grafana-enterprise   "/run.sh"   8 seconds ago   Up 7 seconds   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp   grafana

# To stop the grafana container run the command
# docker stop CONTAINER-ID or use 

> # docker stop NAME (which is grafana as we defined previously)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# docker stop NAME, which is `grafana` as previously defined
```

docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

> When you use Docker containers, the data inside them is temporary by default. This means that if you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.
```

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

To use persistent storage, complete the following steps:

> 1. Ceate a Docker volume by running the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Ceate a Docker volume by running the following commands:
```

   ```

1. To specify the version of a plugin, add the version number to the `GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS` environment variable. 

   For example:

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=grafana-clock-panel 1.0.1" \
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

   >**Note:** If you do not specify a version number, the latest version is used.

1. To install a plugin from a custom URL, use the following convention to specify the URL: `<url to plugin zip>;<plugin install folder name>`.

   For example: 

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=https://github.com/VolkovLabs/custom-plugin.zip;custom-plugin" \
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

## Example

The following example runs the latest stable version of Grafana, listening on port 3000, with the container named "grafana", persistent storage in the grafana-storage docker volume, the server root URL set, and the official [clock panel](https://grafana.com/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel/) plugin installed.

```bash
# create a persistent volume for your data
docker volume create grafana-storage

# start grafana by using the above persistent storage

> # and defining Environment Variables

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# and defining environment variables
```

docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
--volume grafana-storage:/var/lib/grafana \
-e "GF_SERVER_ROOT_URL=http://my.grafana.server/" \
-e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=grafana-clock-panel" \
grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

## Run Grafana via Docker Compose

> Docker Compose is a tool that allows to define and share multi-container applications. With Compose, we can create a YAML file (e.g. `docker-compose.yaml`) to define the services and with a single command, can spin everything up or tear it all down. You can find more information about [Using Docker Compose and its advantages](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/08_using_compose/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker Compose is a software tool that makes it easy to define and share applications that consist of multiple containers. It works by using a YAML file, usually called `docker-compose.yaml`, which lists all the services that make up the application. With a single command, you can start up all the containers in the correct order, and with another command, you can shut everything down. For more information about the benefits of using Docker Compose and how to use it refer to [Use Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/08_using_compose/).
```

### Before you begin

> To run Grafana via Docker Compose, install the compose tool your machine. To determine if the compose tool is available, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To run Grafana via Docker Compose, install the compose tool on your machine. To determine if the compose tool is available, run the following command:
```

```bash
docker compose version
```

> If the compose tool is not available, refer to the [Compose tool](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/) installation guide.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the compose tool is unavailable, refer to [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).
```

### Run the latest stable version of Grafana

> This section shows you how to run Grafana using the Docker Compose. The examples in this section use Compose version 3. For more information about compatibility, refer to [Compose and Docker compatibility matrix](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This section shows you how to run Grafana using Docker Compose. The examples in this section use Compose version 3. For more information about compatibility, refer to [Compose and Docker compatibility matrix](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/).
```

> > **Note:** If you are on a Linux system (for example, Debian or Ubuntu), you might need to add **sudo** before the command or add your user to the **docker** group. For more information, refer to [Linux post-installation steps for Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** If you are on a Linux system (for example, Debian or Ubuntu), you might need to add `sudo` before the command or add your user to the `docker` group. For more information, refer to [Linux post-installation steps for Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).
```

# Run Grafana Docker image

This topic guides you on how to install Grafana by utilizing the official Docker images. Specifically, it covers running Grafana via the Docker command line (CLI) and docker-compose.

> Grafana docker images come in two editions:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Grafana Docker images come in two editions:
```

name = assign a logical name to the container, for example, `grafana`\
grafana/grafana-enterprise = the image to run in the container

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash
# docker ps command tells about the running process in the docker
docker ps

# This will display a list of containers, like:
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE  COMMAND   CREATED  STATUS   PORTS    NAMES
cd48d3994968   grafana/grafana-enterprise   "/run.sh"   8 seconds ago   Up 7 seconds   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp   grafana

# To stop the grafana container run the command
# docker stop CONTAINER-ID or use 
# docker stop NAME (which is grafana as we defined previously)
docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, the data inside them is temporary by default. This means that if you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> 

Reviewer: @usmangt - When would I do this and why is this recommended?

Author: It is recommended because running without it, users will lose all the data once the container is shut down. Users should use this method if thy are deploying in a production environment or where the data is critical.

Reviewer: Let's add that information in the intro to this section, and call out why persistent storage is recommended over bind mounts.

Author: Done, added some information. Please check

Reviewer: Ok, I've reviewed what you've added. When I read the second sentence, "Users should use this method if..." it makes me believe that bind mounts cannot be used in a production environment. Is that true?

Reviewer 2: Thanks for the great documentation @usmangt @chri2547 
I was wondering if there is a an overlap between Docker Volumes / External Database / High Availability setup / Backup-Restore:

- If I as an admin do not use Docker Volumes but an external database, which data is lost after a container shut down?
- Do the files in Docker Volumes need to be replicated across all Grafana instances in an HA setup?
- Do the files in Docker Volumes need to be part of a backup/restore procedure if an external database is used?

Author: Hi @justjulian ,

Thanks for the feedback :slightly_smiling_face: 

I will try to answer your questions to the best knowledge.

> - If I as an admin do not use Docker Volumes but an external database, which data is lost after a container shut down?

So using persistent storage will not allow to data loss. Now, running docker as a non-root user, you might need to check it at this [link](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/#manage-docker-as-a-non-root-user) as how to set it up correctly. Once done, you have to pass the current non-root user-ID in the `docker` or `docker compose`. Here is an example which I also answered in the [community post](https://community.grafana.com/t/new-docker-install-with-persistent-storage-permission-problem/10896/18?u=usman.ahmad)

> - Do the files in Docker Volumes need to be replicated across all Grafana instances in an HA setup?

This is a bit of an expert-level topic. What I know is that for reaching HA for Grafana you also might need to consider using Docker Swarm which can give you such level of DB replication (replicaset) if a node goes down. Found this reference [link](https://dockerlabs.collabnix.com/intermediate/Implementing_High_Availability_with_Docker_Swarm.html) as it might help to understand more.

> - Do the files in Docker Volumes need to be part of a backup/restore procedure if an external database is used?

This is also an expert-level question. Unfortunately, I do not have the answer to this question. What I can tell from experience is that this needs to be thoroughly tested because if you are e.g. using a 3rd party Database which have a different storage Engine, it may work and behave differently on different public cloud networks e..g AWS, GCP; Azure, Alibaba, etc. I would recommend using the [Docker Community forum](https://forums.docker.com/) for this one.

Reviewer 2: Thanks @usmangt , yes, those insights help a lot.
I think all three questions can probably be summarized as: Is there any data loss if not using _Docker Volumes / persistent storage / bind mounts_ but an external database instead? What are your thoughts on that?

Reviewer 2: Thanks @DanCech that clarifies it perfectly :)

To use persistent storage, complete the following steps:

1. Ceate a Docker volume by running the following command:

   ```bash
   # create a persistent volume for your data
   docker volume create grafana-storage

   # verify that the volume was created correctly
   docker volume inspect grafana-storage
   ```

1. Start the Grafana container by running the following command:
   ```bash
   # start grafana
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
   --volume grafana-storage:/var/lib/grafana \
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

#### Use bind mounts

If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user that has the permission to access and write to the folder you map.

To use bind mounts, run the following command:

```bash
# create a folder for your data
mkdir data

# start grafana with your user id and using the data folder
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
--user "$(id -u)" --volume "$PWD/data:/var/lib/grafana" \
grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

> #### Use environment variables

Author: No, this section is not bounded with storage or bind mount point

> #### Use environment variables

Reviewer: Ok, then this heading level should be an H3 (###), and the introduction should provide a bit more information about when a user would want to use environment variables.

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder 

   # then start the grafana container 
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
   ```

   Where:

   d = detached mode \
   up = to bring the container up and running

To determine that Grafana is running, open a browser window and type `IP_ADDRESS:3000`. The sign in screen should appear.

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash
docker compose down
```

> **Note:** For more information about using Docker Compose commands, refer to [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/compose/).

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, the data inside them is temporary by default. This means that if you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> [Need intro here on why you'd use this option over bind mounts. Why is this recommended?]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: @usmangt , Need intro here on why you'd use this option over bind mounts. Why is this recommended?

Author: I have explained this now here in the PR the very 1st comment.

Also, under the heading ### Save your Grafana data contains an explanation in more detail as why it is required to use bind or storage mount point. As the topic is very detailed, I added hyperlinks so that users can see what possible options they can use and also their limitations.

Reviewer: Done. Closing this.

> Complete the following steps to use persistent storage.

Reviewer: @usmangt , These are the same as the steps documented in ### Run the latest stable version of Grafana. Do we need them in both places?

Author: Same as above

Reviewer: Ok, let's do this. After you've accepted my changes, I'll pull down the branch and play around with the structure. I'd like to have just a single section for this content.

Reviewer: Decided to leave the structure as is because there are differences when using docker compose.

> [This is the same as the steps documented in ### Run the latest stable version of Grafana]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I do not understand very well here as to what is the exact question. But I will try to answer it with some details.

So the steps involved when running Grafana via Command Line (while using persistent or bind storage type) are very same as explained in running Grafana using docker-compose.yaml

However, there are some differences when writing the code syntax in the docker-compose.yaml file as CLI is very direct while YAML needs some syntax and indentation

Author: I do not understand very well here as to what is the exact question. But I will try to answer it with some details.

So the steps involved when running Grafana via Command Line (while using persistent or bind storage type) are very same as explained in running Grafana using docker-compose.yaml

However, there are some differences when writing the code syntax in the docker-compose.yaml file as CLI is very direct while YAML needs some syntax and indentation

   ```yaml
   version: "3.8"
    services:
      grafana:
        image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
        container_name: grafana
        restart: unless-stopped
        ports:
          - '3000:3000'
    ```

1. Save the file and run the following command:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
    ```

#### Use bind mounts

If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user that has the permission to access and write to the folder you map.

To use bind mounts, complete the following steps:

1. Create a new `docker-compose.yaml` file

1. Add the following code into it:

   ```yaml
   services:
     grafana:
       image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
       container_name: grafana
       restart: unless-stopped
       # if you are running as root then set it to 0
       # else find the right id with the id -u command
       user: "0"
       ports:
         - '3000:3000'
       volumes:
         - '$PWD/data:/var/lib/grafana'

1. Save the file and run the following command:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
    ```

> 

Reviewer: @usmangt , I notice that there is no Install plugins in the Docker container section here within Docker Compose. Should there be?

Author: Yes, there aren't as wanted to explain to users how to use different storage strategies e.g. persistent or bind mount as simple as possible. Just below this section, is the Example heading which contains how to install a plugin.

name = assign a logical name to the container, for example, `grafana`\
grafana/grafana-enterprise = the image to run in the container

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash
# docker ps command tells about the running process in the docker
docker ps

# This will display a list of containers, like:
CONTAINER ID   IMAGE  COMMAND   CREATED  STATUS   PORTS    NAMES
cd48d3994968   grafana/grafana-enterprise   "/run.sh"   8 seconds ago   Up 7 seconds   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp   grafana

# To stop the grafana container run the command
# docker stop CONTAINER-ID or use 
# docker stop NAME (which is grafana as we defined previously)
docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, the data inside them is temporary by default. This means that if you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> [When would I do this and why is this recommended?]

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

cd48d3994968   grafana/grafana-enterprise   "/run.sh"   8 seconds ago   Up 7 seconds   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp   grafana

# To stop the grafana container run the command
# docker stop CONTAINER-ID or use
# docker stop NAME, which is `grafana` as previously defined
docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

> **Note:** Though both methods are similar, there is a slight difference. If you want your storage to be fully managed by Docker and accessed only through Docker containers and the Docker CLI, you should choose to use persistent storage. However, if you need full control of the storage and want to allow other processes besides Docker to access or modify the storage layer, then bind mounts is the right choice for your environment.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
It is recommended to have persistent storage because, without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you want the Docker service to manage the storage volume fully.
```

   ```

   > **Note:** If you do not specify a version number, the latest version is used.

1. To install a plugin from a custom URL, use the following convention to specify the URL: `<url to plugin zip>;<plugin install folder name>`.

   For example:

   ```bash
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
     -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=https://github.com/VolkovLabs/custom-plugin.zip;custom-plugin" \
     grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

## Example

The following example runs the latest stable version of Grafana, listening on port 3000, with the container named `grafana`, persistent storage in the grafana-storage docker volume, the server root URL set, and the official [clock panel](/grafana/plugins/grafana-clock-panel) plugin installed.

```bash
# create a persistent volume for your data
docker volume create grafana-storage

# start grafana by using the above persistent storage
# and defining environment variables

docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana \
  --volume grafana-storage:/var/lib/grafana \
  -e "GF_SERVER_ROOT_URL=http://my.grafana.server/" \
  -e "GF_INSTALL_PLUGINS=grafana-clock-panel" \
  grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

## Run Grafana via Docker Compose

> Docker Compose is a software tool that makes it easy to define and share applications that consist of multiple containers. It works by using a YAML file, usually called `docker-compose.yaml`, which lists all the services that make up the application. With a single command, you can start up all the containers in the correct order, and with another command, you can shut everything down. For more information about the benefits of using Docker Compose and how to use it refer to [Use Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/08_using_compose/).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Docker Compose is a software tool that makes it easy to define and share applications that consist of multiple containers. It works by using a YAML file, usually called `docker-compose.yaml`, which lists all the services that make up the application. You can start the containers in the correct order with a single command, and with another command, you can shut them down. For more information about the benefits of using Docker Compose and how to use it refer to [Use Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/get-started/08_using_compose/).
```

```bash
docker compose version
```

If the compose tool is unavailable, refer to [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

### Run the latest stable version of Grafana

This section shows you how to run Grafana using Docker Compose. The examples in this section use Compose version 3. For more information about compatibility, refer to [Compose and Docker compatibility matrix](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/).

> **Note:** If you are on a Linux system (for example, Debian or Ubuntu), you might need to add `sudo` before the command or add your user to the `docker` group. For more information, refer to [Linux post-installation steps for Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

To run the latest stable version of Grafana using Docker Compose, complete the following steps:

1. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file.

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder

   #now create the docker-compose.yaml file
   touch docker-compose.yaml
   ```

> 2. Now, add the following code into the `docker-compose.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Now, add the following code into the `docker-compose.yaml` file.
```

   
   For example:

   ```bash
   version: "3.8"
   services:
     grafana:
       image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
       container_name: grafana
       restart: unless-stopped
       ports:
        - '3000:3000'
   ```

> 3. To run `docker-compose.yaml`, run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. To run `docker-compose.yaml`, run the following command:
```

```bash
docker compose down
```

> **Note:** For more information about using Docker Compose commands, refer to [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/compose/).

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.

Complete the following steps to use persistent storage.

1. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder

   #now create the docker-compose.yaml file
   touch docker-compose.yaml
   ```   

> 2. Now, add the following code into the `docker-compose.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Add the following code into the `docker-compose.yaml` file.
```

   ```yaml
   version: '3.8'
   services:
     grafana:
       image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
       container_name: grafana
       restart: unless-stopped
       ports:
         - '3000:3000'
       volumes:
         - grafana_data:/var/lib/grafana
   volumes:
     grafana_data: {}
   ```

> 3. Save the file and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Save the file and run the following command:
```

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d
   ```

#### Use bind mounts

If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user that has the permission to access and write to the folder you map.

To use bind mounts, complete the following steps:

1. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder

   #now create the docker-compose.yaml file
   touch docker-compose.yaml
   ```

> 2. Create the folder where you will be mounting your data, in this case is `/data` e.g. in your current working directory:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Create the folder where you will be mounting your data, in this case is `/data` e.g. in your current working directory:
```

   ```bash
   mkdir $PWD/data
   ```

> 3. Now, add the following code into the `docker-compose.yaml` file.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Now, add the following code into the `docker-compose.yaml` file.
```

   ```yaml
   version: '3.8'
   services:
     grafana:
       image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
       container_name: grafana
       restart: unless-stopped
       # if you are running as root then set it to 0
       # else find the right id with the id -u command
       user: '0'
       ports:
         - '3000:3000'
       # adding the mount volume point which we create earlier
       volumes:
         - '$PWD/data:/var/lib/grafana'
   ```

> 4. Save the file and run the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Save the file and run the following command:
```

# Run Grafana Docker image

> This topic guides you on how to install Grafana by utilizing the official Docker images. Specifically, it covers running Grafana via the Docker command line (CLI) and docker-compose.

Reviewer 3: This is awkward language
```suggestion
This topic guides you through installing Grafana via the official Docker images. Specifically, it covers running Grafana via the Docker command line interface (CLI) and docker-compose.
```

cd48d3994968   grafana/grafana-enterprise   "/run.sh"   8 seconds ago   Up 7 seconds   0.0.0.0:3000->3000/tcp   grafana

# To stop the grafana container run the command
# docker stop CONTAINER-ID or use
# docker stop NAME, which is `grafana` as previously defined
docker stop grafana
```

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

> **Note:** Though both methods are similar, there is a slight difference. If you want your storage to be fully managed by Docker and accessed only through Docker containers and the Docker CLI, you should choose to use persistent storage. However, if you need full control of the storage and want to allow other processes besides Docker to access or modify the storage layer, then bind mounts is the right choice for your environment.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you deploy in a production environment or when the data is critical and want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.
```

To use persistent storage, complete the following steps:

1. Create a Docker volume by running the following commands:

   ```bash
   # create a persistent volume for your data
   docker volume create grafana-storage

   # verify that the volume was created correctly
   docker volume inspect grafana-storage
   ```

1. Start the Grafana container by running the following command:
   ```bash
   # start grafana
   docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana
   --volume grafana-storage:/var/lib/grafana
   grafana/grafana-enterprise
   ```

#### Use bind mounts

If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user with permission to access and write to the folder you map.

To use bind mounts, run the following command:

```bash
# create a folder for your data
mkdir data

# start grafana with your user id and using the data folder
docker run -d -p 3000:3000 --name=grafana
--user "$(id -u)" --volume "$PWD/data:/var/lib/grafana"
grafana/grafana-enterprise
```

> ### Use environment variables

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
### Use environment variables to configure Grafana
```

```bash
docker compose version
```

If the compose tool is unavailable, refer to [Install Docker Compose](https://docs.docker.com/compose/install/).

### Run the latest stable version of Grafana

This section shows you how to run Grafana using Docker Compose. The examples in this section use Compose version 3. For more information about compatibility, refer to [Compose and Docker compatibility matrix](https://docs.docker.com/compose/compose-file/compose-file-v3/).

> **Note:** If you are on a Linux system (for example, Debian or Ubuntu), you might need to add `sudo` before the command or add your user to the `docker` group. For more information, refer to [Linux post-installation steps for Docker Engine](https://docs.docker.com/engine/install/linux-postinstall/).

To run the latest stable version of Grafana using Docker Compose, complete the following steps:

1. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file.

   For example:

   ```bash
    version: "3.8"
    services:
      grafana:
      image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
      container_name: grafana
      restart: unless-stopped
      ports:

>         - '3000:3000'

Reviewer 3: Is this indentation correct? It seems like it should be indented one more level

   ```bash
   # first go into the directory where you have created this docker-compose.yaml file
   cd /path/to/docker-compose-folder

   # then start the grafana container
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
   ```

   Where:

   d = detached mode

   up = to bring the container up and running

To determine that Grafana is running, open a browser window and type `IP_ADDRESS:3000`. The sign in screen should appear.

### Stop the Grafana container

To stop the Grafana container, run the following command:

```bash
docker compose down
```

> **Note:** For more information about using Docker Compose commands, refer to [docker compose](https://docs.docker.com/engine/reference/commandline/compose/).

### Save your Grafana data

When you use Docker containers, their data is temporary by default. If you don't specify where to store the information, all the Grafana data will be lost when you stop the Docker container. To avoid losing your data, you can set up [persistent storage](https://docs.docker.com/storage/volumes/) or [bind mounts](https://docs.docker.com/storage/bind-mounts/) for your container.

#### Use persistent storage (recommended)

> It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you deploy in a production environment or when the data is critical and want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It is recommended to have persistent storage because without it, all data will be lost once the container is shut down. Use this method when you want the Docker service to fully manage the storage volume.
```

Complete the following steps to use persistent storage.

1. Create a `docker-compose.yaml` file
1. Add the following code to the into it:

   ```yaml
   version: '3.8'
   services:
     grafana:
     image: grafana/grafana-enterprise
     container_name: grafana
     restart: unless-stopped
     ports:

>        - '3000:3000'

Reviewer 3: This doesn't configure any volumes? Also see above re: indentation

   ```

1. Save the file and run the following command:

   ```bash
   docker compose up -d docker-compose.yaml
   ```

#### Use bind mounts

If you plan to use folders on your host for the database or configuration when running Grafana in Docker, you must start the container with a user that has the permission to access and write to the folder you map.

To use bind mounts, complete the following steps:

1. Create a new `docker-compose.yaml` file

1. Add the following code into it:

   ```yaml

>    services:

Reviewer 3: missing version, incorrect indentation

Author: now fixed both.
